[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: What isn't observable?
It's a lazy event stream.
Anyone here familiar with node streams?
Use gulp before?
Those are streams.
Very similar to that.
But there's some differences.
So it's a lazy event
stream which emits zero or
more events It's composed of subjects and
observers.
A subject performs some logic and notifies
the observer at the appropriate times.
So, we'll get more into it.
So observer versus promise,
this might help shed some light on it.
So we're all familiar
with promises in here.
Right, okay, so observables are lazy.
Whereas a promise, when you invoke
the promise, it initializes and
it comes back when it's ready, right?
An observable doesn't.
You can write all the code that's gonna
run when the observable is notified.
But it actually won't run yet,
until you tell it to.
It's lazy.
They don't run unless you
subscribe to something,
while a promise will run
as soon as you execute it.
So that's pretty cool.
Observe rules can define both setup and
tear down aspects of asynchronous behavior
and we'll get into that in a little bit,
what that actually means.
You can cancel an observable.
You can be like Stop, I don't carry mine.
I think that's pretty cool.
Although some promise libraries allow
you to do that too, like Bluebird.
You can kind of get in there.
Observables can be retried, while a caller
must have access to the original function
that returned the promise
in order to retry.
So, we'll see what that means too.
So we don't need a reference to
the observable to try it again,
whereas in the promise we do,
we need to save that reference.
Whereas in the observable is
the reference is actually a method that
unsubscribes from itself.
It took me awhile to get observables.
There's this app,
if you have an android phone,
there's this app called ARCs marvels.
And it teaches you, you seeing that up,
yeah, there's a web one too.
But i've been on my phone,
just looking at that and
it's helping me diagram out
observables and stuff like that.
I recommend checking it out.
So, observable.subscribe,
this is the thing,
this it the method we're going to
be interacting with the most here.
So, subscribe just pretty must just
starts your observable to listen
on some type of stream here.
And it really just takes,
in this case, this three callbacks.
The one is going to be
the callback that happens
when a piece of data
comes through the stream.
The second is going to be if an error is
thrown and the third is going to be when
there's no more data coming and
we're about to be done.
So very similar to promises almost.
Or you have then a catch and
then a finally.
All right, so here's an example.
So the source would be some
type of oberservalbe stream and
in our case it's going to
be some type of hcp method.
Probably aget or apost.
And then were going to subscribe.
To that observable.
And when a piece of data comes in, in this
case x, we're just gonna console.log Next.
If an error were to happen,
we would console.log Error.
And finally when there's nothing more and
we're unsubscribing, we're completed.
So conceptually it's the same.
Right now the only difference
is the word subscribe.
But if I put them there it
looks just like I promised.
It is just the word right now.
So Observable.toPromise this
is the method we can use
to convert our observable back to
a standard to a A plus spec promise.
Which is familiar and
sometimes you have to do it.
So to do that you literally
just call toPromise on and
then you have a promise, done, easy.
And this works with the AGCP module and
angular too.
Very convenient.
>> Scott Moss: Any
questions on that so far?
Cool.
>> Scott Moss: What is this,
I don't know what this is,
it's just a random-
>> Scott Moss: Random code sample in here,
hey, look at me And
then always what's important when
handling AC operations error handling.
So we talked about how
observable handle errors,
you can pass in a second
argument to your subscribe.
You can also just immediately do a .catch
just like you would on a promise
right on this observable and
you can tune in for your error here.
And then just throw it
Observable.throw which will
throw an arrow down the stream so
it can be caught later on.
Instead of just throwing
it outside of the stack.
So this is how you would
implicitly throw them.
So for instance if you were using
Window.fetch which doesn't throw an error
on like status codes 400 and above.
You have to do it yourself.
I wish they would fix that.
You would have to do something like this.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this?
>> Scott Moss: Nope, all right, so
an example of that, we were trying
to get some file that doesn't exist.
And we should be smart about it, and
we should go ahead and
try to catch that, that error there.
So, we're going to try and handle it, and
we're going to return this as variable.
The difference with this and
the premise is, it's like I said,
it's going to shoot this error
down the stream of observables so
we can catch it later on,
in the event that it does happen.
But, you know, like, let's say we,
see the thing about observables,
you can compose them and this might
be composed in another stream, so
we don't want this error interrupting
another stream of observables so
this is why this is great.
Whereas a promise, most invitations,
if one promise fails it all just breaks.
Any questions on this stuff?
All right, okay, so headers
inside http very important obviously when
it comes to putting and getting things in
authentication, authorization,
identification, stuff like that.
So to use headers, there is the headers
class that comes with the angular2/http
module that we can use
to just set up headers.
And we can pass them in as
an options here, to our methods,
like post, as you can see at the bottom.
And they're pretty simple for you.
This is a headers object that you attach
to this request options object and
you just pass that along.
Is it really complicated?
Yeah.
Could we have just used regular modules?
Probably.
Regular objects?
Probably, but this is how you do it.